>   ### Economics and Managements

### Inflation

-   It is a measure of the rate at which the average price of a basket of goods and services increases over a period of time in an economy.
-   As the price rises , the value of a single unit of currency decreases as fewer goods and services can be bought. This results in deceleration in the economy.  
-   Popular inflation indexes are **Wholesale Price Indexes (WPI) and Consumer Price Indexes (CPI).**
-   Inflation should be at optimal level in order to promote healthy growth of economy.

#### Causes of Inflation

-   **Demand PULL Inflation**
    -   It occurs when the demand of the goods and services increases more rapidly than the production capacity of a economy.
    -   Ex. Oil Demand

-   **Cost PUSH Inflation**
    -   It occurs when the cost of production rapidly increases resulting in higher cost of finished product.
    -   The increase is so large that the company or provider is forced to pass on to the end user resulting in increase of price.
    -   Ex. shortage of labour 

-   **Built In inflation**
    -   As cost of goods and services increases the labour demand more wages to maintain the cost of their living as a result the production cost also increase.

### Consumer Price Index (CPI)

-   The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure that examines the **weighted average** of prices of a basket of consumer goods and services, such as  transportation, food, and medical care. 
-   It is calculated by taking **price changes** for each item in the predetermined **basket of goods**  and averaging them. 
-   Increase in CPI reflects inflation whereas decrease reflects deflation .
-   CPI is a crucial factor indicating the cost of living i.e higher CPI increases the cost of living.
-   It is calculated with a base value of a particular year and is calculated on monthly basis.

### Deflation

-   Deflation is a general decline in prices for goods and services,  typically associated with a contraction in the supply of money and  credit in the economy. 
-   During deflation, the purchasing power of  currency **rises** over time.

### Constant Value of Money

-   In order to compare money from two different period , the money needed to be converted from current value to constant value taking **inflation** into consideration.

### Present Worth Analysis

-   **Present Value**
    -   Present value (PV) is the **current** value of a **future** sum of money or stream of cash flows given a specified rate of return.
    -    Future cash flows are discounted at the discount rate, and the **higher** the discount rate, the lower the present value of the future cash flows.
    -   Uses the concept of time value of money , as the money received in future is always less than the present value due to it’s potential earning capacity and moreover due to inflation there value decreases.

-   **Net Present Value**
    -   Net present value (NPV) is the **difference** between the** present value* of cash inflows and the present value of cash outflows over a period of time. *
    -   NPV is used in capital budgeting and investment planning to analyse the profitability of a projected investment or project.
    -   A positive NPV indicates that the investment is profitable.

### Accounting Rate of Return (ARR)

-   It is percentage rate of return expected on an investment or asset as compared to the initial investment cost.
-   The amount is expressed in annualised % rate.
-   ARR is calculated based on the cash flows generated by the asset.
-   ARR can be negative if the cash generated is less than the cash required to maintain it .
-   Used to **compare two or more similar asset **such as property , company ..etc
-   Time value of money is **not considered **while calculating ARR .
-   Indicated profitability/loss from that asset over a period of time.

### Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) Analysis

-   It is a **valuation method** that is used to determine the value of investment based on the future cash flow from it.
-   DCF analysis attempts to figure out the value of a company today, based  on projections of how much money it will generate in the future.
-   It is used to measure the **attractiveness** of an investment based upon the future **free cash flow**.
-   DCF analysis finds the present value of expected future cash flows using a discount rate. A present value estimate is then used to evaluate a potential investment. If the value calculated through DCF is higher than the current cost of the investment, the opportunity should be considered.

### Internal Rate of return

-   The internal rate of return (IRR) is a metric used in **capital budgeting** to estimate the **profitability** of potential investments.
-    The internal rate of return is a discount rate that makes the net present value (NPV) of all cash flows from a particular project equal to zero.
-   IRR calculations rely on the same formula as NPV does.
-   It is used for future growth and expansion.

### Cash Flow 

-   Amount of cash generated or consumed in a given period of time.